Israel's war against Hamas is now in its
11th week many of the hostages taken by
Hamas on October 7th have yet to be
release the leadership of Hamas is still
alive and still in charge of the terror
group Israeli forces have bombed much of
Gaza and Hamas claims 20,000 people have
been killed and the violence it shows no
sign of letting up Hamas says that it
will not release any more hostages until
the attacks on Gaza stop a condition
that is a non-starter with Israel and
against all of this what difference
would a resolution from the UN Security
Council calling for a halt to the
fighting what difference would it really
make I'm Brink G in Berlin this is the
[Music]
day we continue the war until the end it
will continue until Hamas is eliminated
what what we need is a sustainable ceas
file those who think we will stop and
not connected to reality W calls again
for a humanitarian ceasefire to stop the
Bloodshed and death all Hamas terrorists
from the first to the last are dead men
they only have two options surrender or
[Music]
die but to our viewers watching on PBS
in the United States and to all of you
around the world welcome we begin the
day with another attempt by the UN
security Council to bring an end to the
fighting in Gaza there have been
numerous attempts by the council to turn
down the volume of violence in Gaza
since the October 7th Hamas Terror
attacks in Israel the US has vetoed two
resolutions each time siding with Israel
and its right to defend itself with the
war almost 3 months old and with Hamas
claiming that 20,000 people have been
killed in Gaza the UN Security Council
is once again considering a resolution
aimed at allowing humanitarian Aid into
the
territory what we need is a sustainable
ceasefire where Hamas is no longer able
to threaten Israel with with rockets and
with terrorism and where the fighting
can stop and the talks about how we have
a long-term solution and peace and
stability where we have Israel secure in
its borders and a Palestine secure in
its borders that is the long-term answer
that's what we want to see all right my
colleague DW's Middle East shaie rosan
if she's here in the big table with me
in the studio sha it's good to see you
you know what we heard there from David
Cameron that all sounds good but at the
end of the day I ask you what I asked at
the beginning of the show what
difference would a security Council
resolution make when it comes to
Israel's strategy inside Gaza well very
little if you talk about operation on
the ground on the long-term strategy
it's clear that Israel is depending on
International support mostly American
but not only uh the the mounting
pressure does have an effect uh I don't
think think it's going to have any
immediate effect but Israel knows it has
very limited time how much time that
depends on the International
Community what or who has the most
leverage here and um who who's not the
member of the security Council well I
think a key country to bring in is the
Egyptians you know Egypt has the border
with Gaza other than Israel um and we've
seen it very instrumental in bringing in
Aid so far um it's also been very
helpful with for Israel along the years
to fight Hamas extremism and other uh
things going through this border um is
this trust in Israel there's a great
trust in Egypt is that trust strong
enough to allow Egypt to be the one
facilitating the needs that the UN wants
you know to have direct Aid coming into
Gaza without Israel monitoring that that
is it to be seen this is part of the
negotiations the back and forth that
we're seeing now it's a Egypt is an
important Ally with great trust from
Americans and Israelis not clear if that
trust is big enough to hold this whole
operation and the UN is also pushing for
bringing in Aid through all possible
routes including air and of course SE
there's there's a big Coastline in in
Gaza so far we haven't seen that too
active uh in that um in that uh in the
last days of the war maybe that would be
a solution um the US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin said this week that at
the UN he hears a lot of Demands being
made on the victims Israel but none
being made on the perpetrator ERS Hamas
yeah and that's something to keep in
mind also when you talk about how how
much teeth do this resolution has
because the UN also demands an immediate
releas of all the hostages as part of
this resolution uh that's being
negotiated will that affect Hamas I
doubt um and this is part of the problem
we have been dealing in this completely
asymmetric uh conflict however if you
talk to the Americans for example they
say Israel um is part of the of the of
the nations of the world has taken upon
itself agreeing to International laws
inter AAL conventions and being part of
the UN which Hamas is not Hamas is not
but there is a responsibility and some
of these common values that we share are
the ground to this relationship to this
Alliance once Israel steps back of it
then you know this Alliance get weaker
and what do mean what does this mean
then to attempts or or calls to
rehabilitate the PLO or the Palestinian
Authority in some form that would make
it at least appear to have the authority
of a governing power correct I mean the
the Palestinian Authority is is
recognized as the official uh
representation of the Palestinians and
and the the Americans is pushing strong
to bring it forth um Israel are pushing
back but the problem is that as long as
Israel keeps pushing back uh without
bringing any alternatives uh it it
remains in control of what happens in
Gaza and by in the world's eyes it also
remains in control of what happens to
the population in Gaza to the civilians
in Gaza who need not just aid but would
need to have recovery we need to have
you know at the end of the day their
life rebuilt Israel on the one hand says
I don't want to deal with Gaza I don't
want this to be my problem anymore but
then on the other hand it's finding it
very hard to let go of this control to
any other body in the world because the
Arab countries are not so quickly to
jump in the Saudis for example say we're
not going to budge as long as Israel is
not promising to solve the Palestinian
problem if there's a some Prospect for a
long-term Solution please we're in but
this is back and forth between Israel
the Americans and other moderate forces
in in the region
I'm wondering what Benjamin Netanyahu um
and his government what they must be
thinking at at this stage seeing that
the Americans um may be willing to let a
resolution pass you know forward this
time and not you know not veto it and
also you saw um the US defense secretary
in Israel earlier this week and pushing
for yeah a a a turnd down if you will in
the military action in Gaza Netanyahu is
he pulling his hair out actually not
because he benefits from this clash with
Hamas he knows he's been weakened in the
polls in the last weeks extremely and
his only way in his mind to regain
popularity is actually to show himself
as to be very tough that means tough on
Hamas and tough on the Palestinian
Authority and also tough with the
Americans saying to the Israelis I'm the
only one who can save you and protect uh
Israel's uh needs um and the Americans
are calculating that also in their uh
push for Israel they know this is part
of the political game eventually however
there's Gaza there's 2.3 million people
they need help they need support
somebody needs to put an end to that
Israel is aware of it the International
Community is doing its best so far it's
going to be hard you know as we've seen
in last week it's hard to find a
breakthrough yeah it seems like time is
on no one's side in this conflict
correct sh rosanis our Middle East
analyst shn is always good to have you
here at the big table thank you for your
analysis thanks the United Nations
Security Council is negotiating for a
third day on a new resolution aimed at
halting the fighting in Gaza US
President Biden has signaled that the US
May back this initiative which was put
forward by Arab countries a vote has
been repeatedly delayed as diplomats
haggle over the wording of the
resolution this ladi's draft calls for a
suspension of hostilities between Israel
and Hamas which many countries as you
may know classify as a terrorist group
the UK France and Germany have joined
Global calls for a cease
fire I DW's enus poll why it is taking
so long to reach a
consensus right Bren I think it's fair
to me mention that member states of the
UN always have their own national
interests to consider when voting on a a
ceasefire but in this particular
situation the United States and Israel
actually have been relatively isolated
in their decision to oppose uh a
ceasefire in a word of the UN General
Assembly some days ago
153 member states out of the 193 total
membership uh backed this resolution uh
uh the US is apparently rejecting um uh
the current resolution uh because of the
UN monitoring mechanisms uh for Aid to
Gaza because Israel does not want uh
less control over monitoring everything
which comes into Gaza uh because they're
apparently afraid of arms and maybe
concrete for tunnels being smuggled
alongside with Aid deliveries so the
Baseline is Brent Israel is not trusting
other countries to keep them safe and
the US has a deep commitment to support
Israel yeah and you said the US has not
been on board with the resolution on
Gaza in the past but that seems to be
shifting what is behind this change of
heart well you know the situation is not
only challenging but actually really
risky for President Biden uh uh we are
all facing an election year next year as
we know and he's not only losing support
from Arab Arab Americans uh due to his
unwavering commitment to Israel but
Paul's also show that a majority of
firsttime voters might not support Biden
in the next presidential election so he
really puts in everything he can to find
a compromise to find a wording which he
can agree on and is Israel to also not
lose the support of the millions of
Americans who strongly support Israel
and would punish Biden if he were to
vote against Israel's take all right
Enis pop with the ladies from Washington
enus as always thank
you Israel has vowed to press on with
its operation in Gaza until Hamas is
eliminated the Israeli military has
released pictures which it says show a
network of Hamas tunnels Israel claims
the network is using or is used by the
group's commanders including those
accused of planning the October 7th
Terror
attacks Israeli soldiers inspect
buildings said to be in Gaza
City they say they've uncovered
entrances to what they allege are secret
rooms used by Hamas
commanders at several
locations a complex with books of the
kurran that you can
see there is this area I see graffiti
and there are carpets on the
floor maybe some kind of prayer area
round metal pipe the military says its
soldiers also discovered shafts to a
quote vast network of tunnels there is
an electricity box here this opens it
was closed this is actually a door not
the back of a box which reaches a space
that leads to the tunnel shaft below
perhaps the most important
Discovery this they believe was used by
the Hamas leader in Gaza
himself Yahya sinir pictured here in an
old
video he's alleged to be one of the
chief planners of the October 7 Terror
attacks and sino's elimination is among
Israel's top objectives in
Gaza
while Israel's ground troops advance and
bombardment continues Israel has now
issued new evacuation orders for Kan
yunas in the South where it claims
senoir is hiding
out the plight of Palestinians has led
to Growing International pressure for a
pause in the
fighting but Israel is standing
firm we continue the war until the end
it will continue until Hamas is elimin
ated until
Victory those who think we will stop are
not connected to
reality and despite holding talks in
Egypt Hamas is also refusing to budge in
a statement it said it will reject any
talks about prisoner and hostage swaps
until quote Israeli aggression is
ended